# calculator

7-13-25 22:57 - basically just started the project; I know this one is going to be insanely difficult as a beginner. It's a great way to end foundations though. I'm going to try to knock out a significant portion of it tonight!

7-14-25 0143 - got the unstyled layout of the calculator done and got the four math functions completed. the operate function though..i'm completely lost. nothing seems to work. hopefully it comes to me after some sleep.

7-14-25 23:03 - I think my issue yesterday was thinking that because the previous function would implicitly return the value that my operate/logic statement would do the same. Once I added return and fixed the variables, the operate function works! I work tomorrow but hopefully the next few nights I can keep adding to the project. This is definitely the hardest so far.

7-17-25 0209 - big breakthroughs tonight! Figured out how to loop through to add an event listener to every button for more concise code. Adding conditional logic to make each button have it's own function. Just need to finish those out tomorrow as it's late tonight. Also starting to think through/pseudocode the next steps to actual get this thing functioning. also, the calculator is incredibly ugly right now; I intend to style it once it's worthy.

7-17-25 2242 - more progress today. I wish I had more time to dig into this tonight because I feel like I'm flowing. I completed all of the buttons click events and now I'm working on how to extract the numbers and operator in order for the function to work. My plan is to incorporate a second display line where the initial math expression will go to above the return answer. I'm using the iphone calculator as an example. Things are starting to click but I have a ton more work to do. I figured out that maybe using a regular expression is the best way to extract stuff that I need but we technically haven't learned it yet. So I went ahead to the documentation and tried to piece together what I could. I don't want to just throw in code I don't fully understand but I think at this basic level it made sense. Anyway, I've got a packed weekend and weird work weeks coming up but I'm hoping I can knock this project out in the next week or two. Stoked!

7-19-25 0328 - ton of progress again! I've got it SORT OF functioning. It can evaluate one problem and then needs to be cleared. I have to create the logic on evaluating one problem, making that the sum that is then able to be evaluated again like - 3+2 = 5 --- 5 + 3 = 8. And so on. Pretty happy with where it's at for now. There's definitely a ton of spaghetti but I just keep reminding myself that I'm brand new at this. I've been doing this for a month and a half at this point. So creating a calculator with zero bugs and concise professional code - not realistic. My goal is to have it functioning exactly as the project is designed though. I've got the delete button setup, I've got decimals that round correctly. Now to figure out why I can't get addition to work. The function itself when console logged works. But then in my final part it concatenates it instead of adding. I'll figure it out!

0348 - solved the concatenation issue by using parseInt. Now my next big solve is going to be getting correct floating point numbers. I know it's possible, other calculators by students are doing it perfectly. I'll figure it out. Tomorrow I plan to figure out probably the biggest part. The logic of taking the initial math expression's answer and allowing it to continue to be calculated with. Messed with floating point numbers a bit longer but still not on the right track - yet. Time to crash, can't wait to keep tackling this tomorrow!

7-20-25 0305 - been doing late work because of company in town and doing stuff with the family. Things should be back on track soon to get more time in. It's definitely been bumming me out not being able to apply a lot of time like normal; it'll be back to that soon. I did solve some great stuff tonight though. Finally correctly displaying floating point numbers to a fixed decimal place and it returns a number ready to be worked on by operate again. Cleaned up code a bit and added my last problems to solve to finish everything. Still got a long way to go; so many variables to consider for such a "simple" project. Any day I can add more working functionality is a win for me.

7-24-25 2259 - forgot to add to the readme the last couple of days but I have added code that works and is nearing my goal! able to continue to calculate problems by hitting the operators. i also added logic to keep a user from adding more than one decimal per number. hitting multiple operators in a row prevents an operation and displays NaN but the logic I'm trying to add may also fix that to prevent it from happening at all. current logic I'm working on is when a user finishes a calculation and the sum is in the bottom display - when a user hits another digit, it will start a whole new calculation. currently, it will just add that digit to the end of the displayed sum. the logic I have written I believe is on the right path. I've got it commented out at the moment because it was breaking the calculator but I think I'll be able to get it working soon. I've got to crash for work or I'd continue to work on it. My goal is to have that complete this Sunday and add keyboard support. then I've completed the entire project plus extra credit! stoked to be nearing the end of foundations; it's been a fun ride!

7-30-25 1658 - I haven't updated the readme in a few days but I have been working on the project throughout. I got a little slowed down while family came in to visit for two weekends in a row; but now I should be back to fully focused on TOP! Yesterday I was able to write the code which completely finishes the calculator without any bugs that I'm aware of. Everything functions exactly as it should. The only thing I haven't completed is the keyboard support. I'm going to begin styling the calculator and then probably come back around to keyboard support. I really want to wrap this project up since it's been about two weeks total and I want to start moving on in the lessons.